AMERICA ICHANS GING ITS
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE PEOPLE OF
CUBA.
>> Woodruff: A HISTORIC SHIFT.
THE U.S. AND CUBA WILL RESTORE
DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS, AFTER MORE
THAN 50 YEARS OF HOSTILITY AND
ISOLATION.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD, SONY PICTURES
CANCELS THE RELEASE OF THEIR
SATIRIC COMEDY ABOUT THE
ASSASSINATION OF NORTH KOREA'S
LEADER AFTER THREATS OF VIOLENCE
AND TERRORISM IF IT MADE IT TO
THEATERS.
>> ALL THE OTHER STUDIOS IN
HOLLYWOOD ARE FRIGHTENED THAT
THEY COULD BE NEXT.
THEY'RE TRYING TO BEEF UP THEIR
SECURITY AND BE MORE CAREFUL
ABOUT THE INFORMATION THEY SHARE
IN E-MAILS AND IN DOCUMENTS ON
THEIR COMPUTERS.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, POLICE
DEPARTMENTS ACROSS THE NATION
MAKE BODY CAMERAS PART OF THE
UNIFORM, BUT AS MORE OFFICERS
RECORD THEIR ROUNDS, WILL
JUSTICE BE BETTER SERVED?
>> WE KNOW THAT EVEN IF YOU SEE
IT ON CAMERA, THERE CAN STILL BE
BIASES.
YOU ONLY HAVE ONE CAMERA ANGLE
OR THE ONE YOU HAVE ONLY SHOWS
PART OF THE ACTION.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
CALLS IT THE MOST SIGNIFICANT
CHANGE IN U.S. POLICY TOWARD
CUBA IN MORE THAN HALF A
CENTURY.
IN A STUNNING MOVE TODAY, HE
LAID OUT PLANS FOR A DIPLOMATIC
RAPPROCHEMENT WITH HAVANA.
>> WE WILL END AN OUTDATED
APPROACH THAT, FOR DECADES, HAS
FAILED TO ADVANCE OUR INTERESTS,
AND INSTEAD WE WILL BEGIN TO
NORMALIZE RELATIONS BETWEEN OUR
TWO COUNTRIES.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT
APPEARED IN THE CABINET ROOM OF
THE WHITE HOUSE TO MAKE HIS
MOMENTOUS ANNOUNCEMENT.
BY EXECUTIVE ACTION, HE IS RE-
ESTABLISHING DIPLOMATIC TIES
WITH CUBA.
HE ALSO MEANS TO OPEN AN EMBASSY
IN HAVANA.
EXPAND ECONOMIC TIES WITH THE
COMMUNIST ISLAND.
AND EASE THE BAN ON TRAVEL FOR
FAMILY, GOVERNMENT BUSINESS AND
EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES.
>> I DO NOT EXPECT THE CHANGES
I'M ANNOUNCING TODAY TO BRING
ABOUT A TRANSFORMATION OF CUBAN
SOCIETY OVERNIGHT, BUT I AM
CONVINCED THAT THROUGH POLICY OF
ENGAGEMENT, WE CAN MORE
EFFECTIVELY STAND UP FOR OUR
VALUES, AND HELP THE CUBAN
PEOPLE HELP THEMSELVES AS THEY
MOVE INTO THE 21ST CENTURY.
>> Woodruff: MR. OBAMA FINALIZED
TRO YESTERDAY. SPEAKING AT
IT WAS THE FIRST SIGNIFICANT
DISCUSSION BETWEEN PRESIDENTS OF
THE U.S. AND CUBA, SINCE 1961.
TODAY, IN HIS OWN TELEVISED
ADDRESS, CASTRO WELCOMED THE
THAW, WHILE CAUTIONING THERE IS
MUCH STILL TO BE RESOLVED.
>> ( translated ): IN
RECOGNIZING THAT WE HAVE
PROFOUND DIFFERENCES IN THE
AREAS OF NATIONAL SOVEREIGNTY,
DEMOCRACY, HUMAN RIGHTS AND
FOREIGN POLICY, REA IFFIRM OUR
WILLINGNESS TO DISCUSS ALL OF
THESE MATTERS.
>> Woodruff: THE RENEWAL OF
RELATIONS FOLLOWED A YEAR OF
SECRET TALKS BETWEEN U.S. AND
CUBAN OFFICIALS IN CANADA AND AT
THE VATICAN.
THE FIRST CONCRETE STEP WAS A
PRISONER SWAP THAT TOOK PLACE
THIS MORNING.
THE U.S. RELEASED THREE CUBAN
AGENTS CONVICTED IN 2001 OF
SPYING ON MILITARY
INSTALLATIONS.
CUBA FREED AN UNNAMED AMERICAN
AGENT, AND ALAN GROSS, A
CIVILIAN CONTRACTOR JAILED SINCE
2009 FOR SETTINUP IG NTERNET
ACCESS THAT BYPASSED CUBAN
CENSORS.
GROSS WAS FLOWN, WITH HIS WIFE,
TO JOINT BASE ANDREWS IN
MARYLAND, AND SPOKE TO REPORTERS
IN WASHINGTON.
>> TO ALL THOSE WHO TRIED TO
VISIT ME, BUT WERE UNABLE TO,
THANK YOU FOR TRYING.
I'M AT YOUR SERVICE AS I TRY TO
GET NEW TEETH AND I HOPE THEY
WILL BE STRONG AND SHARP ENOUGH
TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
TWO WRONGS NEVER MADE A RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: ALL OF THIS MARKS A
BREAK WITH DECADES OF HOSTILITY
BETWEEN THE U.S. AND CUBA.
IT BEGAN IN 1959, WHEN FIDEL
CASTRO AND HIS BROTHER RAUL, LED
A REVOLUTION THAT OVERTHREW THE
U.S.-BACKED DICTATOR FULGENCIO
BATISTA.
CASTRO NATIONALID U.ZES. OWNED
COMPANIES AND ALLIED HIS
COMMUNIST REGIME WITH THE SOVIET
UNION.
PRESIDENT DWIGHT EISENHOWER
RESPONDED BY CUTTING ALL TIES
WITH CUBA IN 1961, AND IMPOSING
THE EMBARGO.
A FEW MONTHS LATER, CAME THE BAY
OF PIGS, THE FAILED C.I.A.
ATTEMPT TO OVERTHROW CASTRO.
AND THEN, THE CUBAN MISSILE
CRISIS, IN OCTOBER 1962, WHEN
THE DISCOVERY OF NUCLEAR
MISSILES IN CUBA ALMOST PLUNGED
THE U.S. AND THE SOVIET UNION
INTO NUCLEAR WAR.
AND IN 1980, IN THE MARIEL
BOATLIFT, CASTRO FREED THOUSANDS
OF PRISONERS, AND PUT THEM ON
BOATS TO FLORIDA.
LOOKING BACK TODAY, PRESIDENT
OBAMA SAID THE POLICY OF
ISOLATING CUBA HAS NOT WORKED,
AND HE SINGLED OUT THE
LONGSTANDING U.S. ECONOMIC
EMBARGO.
>> THOUGH THIS POLICY HAS BEEN
ROOTED IN BEST OF INTENTIONS, NO
OTHER NATION JOINS US IN
IMPOSING THESE SANCTIONS.
AND IT HAS HAD LITTLE EFFECT
BEYOND PROVIDING THE CUBAN
GOVERNMENT WITH RATIONALE FOR
RESTRICTIONS ON ITS PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: LIFTING THE EMBARGO
IS SUBJECT TO ACTION BY
CONGRESS, AND THE WHITE HOUSE
SAID IT HOPES LAWMAKERS WILL
AGREE TO GO ALONG.
MOST DEMOCRATS PRAISED THE
PRESIDENT'S MOVES, BUT MOST
REPUBLICANS DECRIED IT,
INCLUDING FLORIDA SENATOR MARCO
RUBIO WHOSE PARENTS FLED
CASTRO'S RULE.
HE SPOKE TO ABC NEWS.
>> WHAT I'M INTERESTED IN IS
FREEDOM AND DEMOCRACY.
THE CUBANS HAVEN'T AGREED TO ANY
OF THAT.
THERE WONT BE ELECTIONS IN CUBA,
THERE WONT BE POLITICAL PARTIES,
THERE WONT BE FREEDOM OF THE
PRESS, FREEDOM TO ORGANIZE, NONE
OF THESE THINGS ARE HAPPENING
AND THEY WONT HAPPEN JUST
BECAUSE PEOPLE CAN BUY COCA
COLA.
>> Warner: AND PROSPECTIVE
G.O.P. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
JEB BUSH, A FORMER GOVERNOR OF
FLORIDA, SAID HE, TOO, OPPOSES
THE MOVE TO NORMALIZE RELATIONS
WITH CUBA.
WE'LL TALK TO SUPPORTERS AND
OPPONENTS OF THE PRESIDENT'S NEW
POLICY, AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
HOURS BEFORE THE CUBA NEWS
BROKE, THE HEAD OF THE U.S.
AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ANNOUNCED HE'S
STEPPING DOWN.
RAJIV SHAH OVERSAW THE AGENCY'S
INVOLVEMENT IN SECRET PROGRAMS
IN CUBA, CREATING A TWITTER-LIKE
SERVICE, AND INFILTRATING THE
ISLAND'S HIP-HOP COMMUNITY.
SHAH GAVE NO REASON FOR HIS
DEPARTURE.
DOZENS OF PAKISTANI FAMILIES
BURIED THEIR DEAD  TODAY, AS THE
DEATH TOLL ROSE IN TUESDAY'S
TALIBAN ATTACK ON A SCHOOL.
FUNERALS WERE HELD IN THE
NORTHWESTERN CITY OF PESHAWAR.
NEARLY ALL OF THOSE KILLED WERE
STUDENTS AT THE SCHOOL.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM JONATHAN
RUGMAN OF INDEPENDENT TELEVISION
NEWS.
>> Reporter: SHE WAS A
MUCH-LOVED HEAD TEACHER BURIED
TODAY BY HER GRIEVING HUSBAND
AND SON.
TAHRIRA CAUSEY WAS JUST ONE OF
148 KILLED YESTERDAY IN AN
ATROCITY WHICH HAS SHOCKED
PAKISTAN INTO THREE DAYS OF
NATIONAL MOURNING.
AND THE ARMY IS VOWING REVENGE
FOR EVERY DROP OF SPILLED BLOOD.
"I'M PROUD OF MY MOTHER.
SHE HAD THE CHANCE TO GET OUT,
BUT SHE STAYED AT HER POST.
SHE DIDN'T LEAVE THE CHILDREN
ALONE.
SHE GAVE HER LIFE FOR THEM."
>> Reporter: INSIDE HER
SCHOOL, THE ROLL CALL OF HONOR
STILL STANDS AMID WALLS
POCKMARKEPOCKMARKED WITH BULLETD
HATRED.
A BLOODIED EXERCISE BOOK, AN
ABANDONED SHOE.
STUDENTS TRAPPED IN THEIR SEATS
BY GUNMEN WHO SHOT AT CLOSE
RANGE.
AND THE PAKISTAN EMERGING FROM
THIS MASSACRE SEEMS DETERMINED
TO BE TOUGHER.
THE PRIME MINISTER SAID HE WAS
REINTRUCING THE DEATH PENALTY.
SITTING ALONGSIDE HIM AT THIS
POLITICAL SUMMIT, HIS RIVAL, WHO
HAS POSTPONED PROTESTS INTENDED
TO FORCE THE PRIME MINISTER FROM
OFFICE.
THE HEADS OF THE ARMY AND
INTELLIGENCE FLEW TO
AFGHANISTAN, DEMANDING
COOPERATION.
THE ARMY CLAIMED YESTERDAY'S
ATTACK WAS PLANNED FROM AFGHAN
SOIL.
PAKISTAN'S MOST WANTED.
THOUGH EVEN IF THIS TALIBAN
COMMAER INDS FOUND AND HANDED
OVER, PAKISTANIS PROTESTING ALL
OVER THE COUNTRY TODAY ARE
DEMANDING ACTION FIRST AND
FOREMOST AT HOME.
>> Woodruff: THE TALIBAN SAYS
THE ATTACK WAS RETALIATION FOR
AN ONGOING OFFENSIVE BY THE
PAKISTANI MILITARY.
IN EASTERN SYRIA, MORE THAN 230
BODIES HAVE BEEN FOUND IN A MASS
GRAVE IN EASTERN SYRIA, NEAR THE
BORDER WITH IRAQ.
A SYRIAN HUMAN RIGHTS GROUP SAYS
THE VICTIMS APPEAR TO BE FROM A
TRIBE THAT FOUGHT AGAINST THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP.
THE MILITANTS NOW CONTROL MOST
OF THE PROVINCE WHERE THE MASS
GRAVE IS LOCATED.
IT WAS FOUND WHEN OTHER MEMBERS
OF THE TRIBE WERE ALLOWED TO
RETURN HOME.
IN YEMEN, SHIITE REBELS WHO
ALREADY CONTROL KEY PARTS OF THE
COUNTRY HAVE MADE ANOTHER BIG
MOVE.
THEY CLOSED A STRATEGIC RED SEA
PORT TODAY.
THE REBELS SEIZED THE SITE BACK
IN OCTOBER, A MONTH AFTER
SWEEPING THROUGH THE CAPITAL
CITY, SANAA.
AUSTRALIAN PRIME MINISTER TONY
ABBOTT TODAY PROMISED A THOROUGH
INVESTIGATION INTO MONDAY'S
SIEGE IN SYDNEY THAT LEFT TWO
HOSTAGES AND THE GUNMAN DEAD.
ABBOTT CONFIRMED THAT THE
SHOOTER, MAN HARON MONIS, HAD
BEEN DROPPED FROM A GOVERNMENT
WATCH LIST, FOR REASONS THAT ARE
NOT CLEAR.
>> WE PARTICULARLY NEED TO KNOW
HOW SOMEONE WITH SUCH A LONG
RECORD OF VIOLENCE, SUCH A LONG
RECORD OF MENTAL INSTABILITY,
WAS OUT ON BAIL AFTER HIS
INVOLVEMENT IN A PARTICULARLY
HORRIFIC CRIME.
AND WE DO NEED TO KNOW WHY HE
SEEMS TO HAVE FALLEN OFF OUR
SECURITY AGENCIES' WATCH LIST
BACK IN 2009.
>> Woodruff: MONIS WAS CONVICTED
AND SENTENCED LAST YEAR TO
COMMUNITY SERVICE FOR SENDING
ABUSIVE LETTERS TO THE FAMILIES
OF AUSTRALIAN SOLDIERS KILLED IN
AFGHANISTAN.
THE U.S. JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
TODAY ANNOUNCED ITS LARGEST
CRIMINAL CASE EVER, INVOLVING
CONTAMINATED MEDICINE.
14 SUSPECTS WERE CHARGED IN A
2012 OUTBREAK OF MENINGITIS THAT
KILLED 64 PEOPLE.
IT WAS TRACED TO TAINTED
INJECTIONS FROM A NOW-DEFUNCT
PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY IN
MASSACHUSETTS.
IN BOSTON, U.S. ATTORNEY CARMEN
ORTIZ SAID THE MEDICINE WAS MADE
IN FILTHY CONDITIONS.
THEY KNEW THAT THE DRUGS THAT
EVENTUALLY KILLED 64 PEOPLE AND
INJURED HUNDREDS MORE COULD NOT
BE AND SHOULD NOT HAVE BEEN
INJECTED INTO PATIENTS, AND YET
THEY CONTINUED TO MAKE AND SELL
THOSE DRUGS, LABELED THEM AS
INJECTABLE, WHICH MEANT THAT
THEY WERE STERILE, AND DISPENSED
THEM THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: E CHTHARGES RANGE
FROM CORRUPTION AND RACKETEERING
TO SECOND-DEGREE MURDER.
A SOUTH CAROLINA JUDGE HAS
THROWN OUT THE CONVICTION OF A
BLACK TEENAGER WHO WAS EXECUTED
IN 1944.
14-YEAR-OLD GEORGE STINNEY WAS
CHARGED WITH KILLING TWO YOUNG
WHITE GIRLS.
AN ALL-WHITE JURY CONVICTED HIM
AFTER A ONE-DAY TRIAL, AND HE
DIED IN THE STATE'S ELECTRIC
CHAIR JUST THREE MONTHS LATER.
THE JUDGE RULED TODAY THAT
STINNEY WAS THE VICTIM OF A
GREAT INJUSTICE.
THE FEDERAL RESERVE SIGNALED
TODAY IT'S GETTING CLOSER TO
RAISING INTEREST RATES.
AT THE SAME TIME, THE CENTRAL
BANK SAID IT WILL BE PATIENT IN
DECIDING JUST WHEN TO ACT.
FED CHAIR JANET YELLEN SAID
POLICYMAKERS WILL BE GUIDED BY
THE STRENGTH OF ECONOMIC DATA
AND THE LEVEL OF INFLATION.
>> A NUMBER OF COMMITTEE
PARTICIPANTS HAVE INDICATED THAT
IN THEIR VIEW CONDITIONS COULD
BE APPROPRIATE BY MIDDLE OF NEXT
YEAR, BUT THERE IS NO PRESET
TIME AND THERE ARE A RANGE OF
VIEWS AS TO WHEN THE APPROPRIATE
CONDITIONS WILL LIKELY FALL IN
PLACE, SO THAT'S SOMETHING WE
WILL BE WATCHING CLOSELY AS YEAR
UNFOLDS.
>> Woodruff: ON WALL STREET,
STOCKS SHOT HIGHER ON THE NEWS
THAT THE FED HAS NO IMMEDIATE
PLANS TO RAISE RATES.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 288 POINTS TO CLOSE NEAR
17,357.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 96 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,644.
AND THE S&P 500 ADDED 40, TO
FINISH JUST UNDER 2,013.
THE GAINS WERE ALSO FUELED BY A
SMALL INCREASE IN THE PRICE OF
OIL.
RUSSIA'S FINANCE MINISTRY
RESORTED TO SELLING SOME OF ITS
FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES TODAY,
IN ANOTHER BID TO SHORE UP THE
RUBLE.
THE CURRENCY HAD LOST 15% OF ITS
VALUE JUST THIS WEEK, BUT THE
MINISTRY'S MOVE TRIGGERED A
MODERATE RALLY TODAY.
THE STATE OF NEW YORK WILL SOON
BAN THE GAS-DRILLING TECHNIQUE
KNOWN AS FRACKING.
THAT ANNOUNCEMENT TODAY FOLLOWED
A LONG-AWAITED STATE REVIEW THAT
CITED UNRESOLVED HEALTH RISKS.
FRACKING INVOLVES INJECTING
CHEMICALLY TREATED WATER AT HIGH
PRESSURE, DEEP INTO SHALE
DEPOSITS.
NEW YORK HAS BANNED SHALE GAS
DEVELOPMENT SINCE 2008.
NOW THE ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSIONER PLANS TO MAKE THE
BAN PERMANENT.
AND THE 2014 MID-TERM ELECTIONS
ARE NOW, FINALLY, OVER.
REPUBLICAN MARTHA MCSALLY WAS
DECLARED THE WINNER TODAY OF A
U.S. HOUSE SEAT IN ARIZONA.
SHE EDGED OUT DEMOCRATIC
INCUMBENT RON BARBER IN A
RECOUNT, BY 167 VOTES.
REPUBLICANS WILL HAVE 247 HOUSE
SEATS IN THE NEW CONGRESS, THE
MOST SINCE HERBERT HOOVER WAS
PRESIDENT.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR,
DEBATING OPENING THE DOOR TO
CUBA.
SONY PICTURES CANCELS THE
RELEASE OF "THE INTERVIEW" AFTER
THREATS.
CONGRESS FAILS TO EXTEND
GOVERNMENT-BACKED INSURANCE FOR
DAMAGES CAUSED BY ACTS OF
TERROR.
WILL BODY CAMERAS MAKE LAW
ENFORCEMENT USE LESS FORCE?
AND EXITING LAWMAKERS BID
FAREWELL TO CAPITOL HILL.
>> Woodruff: WE RETURN TO THE
HISTORIC SHIFT IN U.S. CUBAN
RELATIONS IN TWO PARTS.
FIRST, WE LOOK AT IF IT'S A GOOD
IDEA TO RE-ESTABLISH DIPLOMATIC
RELATIONS WITH THE ISLAND
NATION?
WE BEGIN WITH A MEMBER OF THE
DEMOCRATIC HOUSE LEADERSHIP,
REPRESENTATIVE CHRIS VAN HOLLEN
OF MARYLAND, WHO TRAVELED TODAY
FROM CUBA WITH ALAN GROSS.
GROSS LIVES IN HIS DISTRICT.
CONGRESSMAN VAN HOLLEN, WELCOME
BACK TO THE NEWSHOUR.
FIRST OF ALL, TELL US WHY IS IT
IN THE INTEREST OF THE UNITED
STATES TO HAVE DIPLOMATIC
RELATIONS WITH THE COMMUNIST
NEIGHBOR?
>> WELL, IT'S IN THE INTEREST OF
THE UNITED STATES TO CREATE
CONDITIONS THAT CREATE MORE
FREEDOM AND OPPORTUNITY FOR THE
CUBAN PEOPLE.
AND WHAT'S VERY CLEAR IS THAT
OUR POLICY OF THE LAST 54 YEARS,
WHICH WAS DESIGNED TO ISOLATE
AND PUNISH CUBA, HAS BEEN A
TOTAL FAILURE BY ITS OWN
MEASURE.
WE HAVE NOT HELPED OPEN UP THE
ISLAND.
WE HAVE NOT CREATED MORE
DEMOCRACY.
IN FACT, IT HAS SUSTAINED THE
CASTRO BROTHERS FOR THESE 54
YEARS.
THEY HAVE SURVIVED EIGHT U.S.
PRESIDENTS.
SO WHEN A POLICY IS CLEARLY
FAILING, TRY SOMETHING ELSE.
AND ENGAGING THE CUBAN PEOPLE
WITH GREATER TRAVEL, GREATER
COMMUNICATION, WITH GREATER
TRADE WILL HELP CREATE THE
CONDITIONS AND CREATE PRESSURE,
I BELIEVE, ULTIMATELY, ON THE
REGIME.
SO IT'S TIME TO TRY A STRATEGY
THAT WORKS FOR THE CUBAN PEOPLE.
THIS IS NOT IN ANY WAY A REWARD
FOR THE REGIME.
IN FACT, THE REGIME HAS BEEN
EMPOWERED BY THE FAILED POLICY
OF THE LAST 54 YEARS.
>> Woodruff: WELL, HOUSE
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER IS SAYING
THIS IS APPEASING, IN HIS WORDS,
A BRUTAL DICTATOR.
SENATOR MARCO RUBIO OF FLORIDA
AND OTHERS ARE SAYING THIS
SHOULD NEVER HAVE EVEN BEEN
THOUGHT ABOUT AS LONG AS THE
PEOPLE OF CUBA ARE NOT FREE.
>> YEAH, BUT HERE'S THE
QUESTION, JUDY.
SO I THINK THE BURDEN IS ON THE
CRITICS TO SAY HOW ANOTHER FIVE
YEARS, ANOTHER 10 YEARS OF THE
CURRENT POLICY CHANGES THAT
CONDITION.
BECAUSE WHAT THOSE CRITICS ARE
DESCRIBING IS THE CONDITION THAT
EXISTS UNDER THE OLD POLICY, THE
POLICY BEFORE TODAY.
SO IF THAT'S NOT WORKING, IF
THAT'S ACTUALLY EMPOWERING THE
REGIME TO STAY WHERE THEY ARE,
ENGAGEMENT IS THE ALTERNATIVE
BECAUSE WHAT THE ENGAGEMENT WILL
DO IS ALLOW MORE INTERACTION
BETWEEN THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AND
THE CUBAN PEOPLE, MORE TRADE,
MORE MARKETPLACE EXCHANGES, MORE
COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT INTO
CUBA.
SO BY CREATING THE CONDITIONS
FOR MORE OPENNESS, YOU WILL
CREATE, OVER TIME, MORE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR AN OPEN CUBA.
>> Woodruff: BUT WHERE IS THE
GUARANTEE THAT THE CUBAN
LEADERSHIP IS GOING TO OPEN UP,
IS GOING TO CREATE THESE
FREEDOMS THAT THEY HAVEN'T
GRANTED FOR THE LAST 50-PLUS
YEARS?
>> THERE'S NO ABSOLUTE
GUARANTEE, BUT THIS IS NOT
SOMETHING THAT IS FOR THE
REGIME.
THIS IS NO GIFT TO THE REGIME.
IN FACT, THE PEOPLE WHO SHOULD
BE MOST SCARED ABOUT THE
PRESIDENT'S POLICIES ARE THE
PEOPLE WHO WANT TO LIMIT FREEDOM
IN CUBA BECAUSE WHAT WE KNOW IS
THAT THE CURRENT POLICY HAS BEEN
THE ONE THAT HAS DENIED FREEDOM
TO THE CUBAN PEOPLE, AND THIS IS
AN ALTERNATIVE THAT WILL HELP
OPEN THINGS UP.
SO PEOPLE ARE TRYING TO CREATE
THIS FALSE PREMISE THAT SOMEHOW
THIS DOES A FAVOR TO THE CASTRO
BROTHERS.
IT DOES NOT DO ANY FAVORS PING
OVER TIME, YOU'RE GOING TO FIND
THE CUBAN REGIME IS THE THE ONE
THAT IS PUT MOST AT RISK BY THIS
GREATER EXCHANGE OF IDEAS AND
GOODS.
THAT HAS BEEN THE CASE IN MANY
OTHER COUNTRIES AROUND THE
WORLD, AND I THINK IT WILL BE
THE CASE IN CUBA.
SO NO ONE'S EXPECTING IN THE
NEXT 24 HOURS OR THE NEXT YEAR
FOR THE REGIME SOMEHOW TO
CHANGE.
BUT WHAT WILL CHANGE IS THE
INTERACTION BETWEEN THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE AND CUBA, BETWEEN CUBA
AND THE OUTSIDE WORLD, AND THAT
WILL HELP CREATE THE CONDITIONS
FOR CHANGE.
CLEARLY, THE CURRENT POLICY HAS
BEEN A MISERABLE FAILURE ON ITS
OWN TERMS.
AND YOU'VE JUST MENTIONED IT.
THE CRITICS KEEP SAYING, LOOK AT
CUBA, WHAT A TERRIBLE PLACE IT
IS.
THAT IS PARTLY THE CONSEQUENCE
OF OUR FAILED 54-YEAR POLICY.
>> Woodruff:
>> Woodruff: NOW FOR A DIFFERENT
PERSPECTIVE, WE TURN TO FORMER
AMBASSADOR ROGER NORIEGA WHO
SERVED AS ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF
STATE FOR THE WESTERN HEMISPHERE
DURING THE GEORGE W. BUSH
ADMINISTRATION.
HE'S NOW A VISITING FELLOW AT
THE AMERICAN ENTERPRISE
INSTITUTE AND HAS HIS OWN
CONSULTING FIRM.
AMBASSADOR NORIEGA, WELCOME TO
THE PROGRAM.
YOU JUST HEARD CONGRESSMAN VAN
HOLLEN.
YOU KNOW PRESIDENT OBAMA TODAY
CALLED THE CURRENT POLICY A
FAILURE.
WHY ISN'T THIS THE RIGHT MOVE
NOW?
>> WELL, THE PRESIDENT'S TAKEN
AN EXTRAORDINARILY DANGEROUS
BET.
HE HAS MADE UNILATERAL
CONCESSIONS TO THE CASTRO
DICTATORSHIP, A DICTATORSHIP
THAT'S DRAWING ITS LAST BREATHS,
BY NORMALIZING POLITICAL
RELATIONSHIPS, DIPLOMATIC
RELATIONSHIPS, HE CONFERS A
LEGITIMACY ON THAT REGIME THAT
IT DOESN'T DESERVE.
IF HE'S WRONG IN THAT BET-- AND
I NOTE HE DIDN'T EVEN ASK FOR
ANY CHANGES FROM THE CUBAN
DICTATORSHIP-- IF HE'S WRONG ON
THAT BET, THE PEOPLE THAT WILL
PAY FOR IT ARE THE 11 MILLION
CUBEANS.
ALAN GROSS WAS ONE HOSTAGE.
THERE ARE 11 MILLION HOSTAGES
LEFT BEHIND.
AND IT'S EXTRAORDINARILY
IMPORTANT THAT THE PRESIDENT
UNDERSTANDS THAT HE CAN'T JUST
MAKE A SPEECH AND WALK AWAY FROM
THIS.
HE THOANS NOW, AND HE NEEDS TO
TAKE VIGOROUS STEPS TO ENGAGE
THE LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN
COUNTRIES, IN PARTICULAR, TO
PRESS THE REGIME TO RESPECT THE
FUNDAMENTAL FREEDOMS OF THE
CUBAN PEOPLE ARE THAT DENIED
THEM SYSTEMATICALLY BY THE
REGIME IN HAVANA.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THE
ARGUMENT THOUGH, THAT WE JUST
HEARD, THAT OPENING UP U.S.-CUBA
RELATIONS WITH TRADE, WITH
TRAVEL, WITH COMMUNICATIONS IS
GOING TO PUT PRESSURE ON THE
CASTRO REGIMES TO CHANGE.
>> THIS IS NOT THE NEW OBAMA
POLICY.
THIS IS THE OCA
THEY TRIED IT STARTING 15 YEARS
ANOTHER AND IT WAS A MISERABLE
FAILURE.
THE REASON THAT YOU HAVEN'T SEEN
MEANINGFUL CHANGE IN CUBA IS
BECAUSE YOU HAVE AN IMPLACABLE
REGIME THAT UNDERSTANDS THAT
OPENING UP IN THE SLIGHTEST WAY,
THEY WILL EVENTUALLY LOSE POWER
IN A CATASTROPHIC WAY FOR THEM.
SO THEY WILL NOT OPEN UP.
AND, UNFORTUNATELY, THE
PRESIDENT IS BETTING ON SOME
SORT OF GOOD WILL FROM THAT
SELF-SAME IMPLACABLE REGIME.
IT'S REALLY AN UNWISE POLICY TO
RESUSCITATE THE PEOPLE ON THE
ISLAND WHO ARE THE SINGLE
BIGGEST OBSTACLE TO POLITICAL
AND ECONOMIC CHANGE.
>> Woodruff: BUT IF THE
CURRENT CONDITION-- WE JUST
HEARD CONGRESSMAN VAN HOLLEN SAY
THIS-- IF THE CURRENT POLICY
ISN'T WORKING, WHY WILL ANOTHER
FOUR YEARS, FIVE YEARS, 50 YEARS
MAKE A DIFFERENCE OF THIS
POLICY?
>> I UNDERSTAND THAT ARGUMENT.
THE ISSUE FOR US TODAY IS NOT
WHETHER WE ARE GOING TO BREAK
RELATIONSHIPS WITH HAVANA.
IT'S WHETHER-- HOW YOU GO ABOUT
REESTABLISHING THOSE THINGS.
AND THE POLICY OF THE UNITED
STATES IS PREDICATED ON THE
PRINCIPLE THAT WE WILL NORMALIZE
RELATIONS AS A REGIME THERE
DEMONSTRATES ITS WILL TO CHANGE
IN A MEANINGFUL WAY.
AND WE TIEWZ AS LERNLG TO MAKE
SURE THOSE POLITICAL AND
ECONOMIC CHANGES ARE PROFOUND, .
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT, JUST
FINELY, THE UNITED STATES HAS
DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH OTHER
NATION WHERE'S PEOPLE ARE NOT
FREE-- COMIEN AVIETNAM-- WHY NOT
WITH CUBA?
>> WELL, BECAUSE AT THIS POINT,
AS I SAID, WE HAVE PLEDICATED
OUR POLICY ON EXPECTING A
TRANSITIONAL GOVERNMENT THERE TO
MAKE MEANINGFUL CHANGE.
THE CASTRO REGIME WILL NOT DO
SO.
AND WE'VE TRIED NEW THINGS.
WE'VE TRIED TO REACH OUT TO THE
CUBAN PEOPLE.
WE SENT A MAN LIKE ALAN GROSS TO
REACH OUT TO THE CUBAN PEOPLE,
TO GIVE THEM ACCESS TO THE
INTERNET, SOMETHING AS SIMPLE AS
THAT, AND HE WENT TO JAIL FOR
TWO YEARS.
BY THE SAME REGIME THAT WE'RE
BETTING IS SOMEHOW NOW GOING TO
CHANGE ITS STRIPES.
AND, UNFORTUNATELY, THE CUBAN
PEOPLE WILL PAY THE PRICE FOR
THIS UNWISE MOVE.
>> Woodruff: AMBASSADOR ROGER
NORIEGA, WE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: TODAY'S MOMENTOUS
DEVELOPMENTS TOWARD CUBA HAVE
THEIR BIGGEST IMPACT IMMEDIATELY
WITHIN THE CUBAN AMERICAN
COMMUNITY, WHICH IS DIVIDED
ITSELF OVER THE BEST WAY
FORWARD.
ANA CARBONELL, A CUBAN-AMERICAN
POLITICAL STRATEGIST AND
ACTIVIST.
CUBAN-BORN AMERICAN WHO IS THE
MARIA DE LOS ANGELES TORRES, A
DIRECTOR OF THE INTER-UNIVERSITY
CUBAN-BORN AMERICAN WHO IS THE
PROGRAM FOR LATINO RESEARCH AND
DIRECTOR OF THE INTER-UNIVERSITY
A PROFESSOR AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
PROGRAM FOR LATINO RESEARCH AND
ILLINOIS, CHICAGO.
A PROFESSOR AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
WE WELCOME BOTH OF YOU.
ILLINOIS, CHICAGO.
TO MARIA DE LOS ANGELES TORRES
WE WELCOME BOTH OF YOU.
FIRST, WHAT DO YOU THINK THIS
TO MARIA DE LOS ANGELES TORRES
CHANGE IS GOING TO MEAN FOR THE
FIRST, WHAT DO YOU THINK THIS
AMERICAN PEOPLE, ESPECIALLY FOR
CHANGE IS GOING TO MEAN FOR THE
THE CUBAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY?
AMERICAN PEOPLE, ESPECIALLY FOR
THIS COUNTRY?
THE CUBAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT THERE IS,
THIS COUNTRY?
FIRST OF ALL, I THINK THAT THIS
>> WELL, I THINK THAT THERE IS,
IS A STEP IN THE RIGHT
FIRST OF ALL, I THINK THAT THIS
DIRECTION.
IS A STEP IN THE RIGHT
I THINK THAT IT WILL MEAN THAT
DIRECTION.
THERE IS A GLIMMER OF HOPE THAT
I THINK THAT IT WILL MEAN THAT
A TRANSNITION CUBA CAN BE
THERE IS A GLIMMER OF HOPE THAT
PEACEFUL.
A TRANSNITION CUBA CAN BE
I THINK FOR MANY CUBAN AMERICANS
PEACEFUL.
WE'RE REALLY IN TWIEWN WHAT
I THINK FOR MANY CUBAN AMERICANS
ISINISGOING ON IN CUBA.
WE'RE REALLY IN TWIEWN WHAT
IT IS A VERY PRECARIOUS
ISINISGOING ON IN CUBA.
SITUATION.
IT IS A VERY PRECARIOUS
IT IS ECONOMICALLY PRECARIOUS
SITUATION.
AND POLITICALLY PRECARIOUS, AND
IT IS ECONOMICALLY PRECARIOUS
BECAUSE OF THE WORLD ECONOMIC
AND POLITICALLY PRECARIOUS, AND
SITUATION, IT IS WORSE.
BECAUSE OF THE WORLD ECONOMIC
THAT DOES NOT NECESSARILY
SITUATION, IT IS WORSE.
TRANSLATE INTO PEACEFUL
THAT DOES NOT NECESSARILY
TRANSITIONS.
TRANSLATE INTO PEACEFUL
WHAT IT TRANSLATES INTO IS A
TRANSITIONS.
POTENTIAL FOR REPRESSION.
WHAT IT TRANSLATES INTO IS A
I THINK THAT THIS POLICY
POTENTIAL FOR REPRESSION.
RECOGNIZES IS THAT IT IS A
I THINK THAT THIS POLICY
SITUATION THAT CAN BE VERY
RECOGNIZES IS THAT IT IS A
DANGEROUS, AND SO FOR MY
SITUATION THAT CAN BE VERY
PERSPECTIVE, I THINK MANY CUBAN
DANGEROUS, AND SO FOR MY
AMERICANS UNDERSTAND THAT AND
PERSPECTIVE, I THINK MANY CUBAN
SEE THAT THERE IS A NEED TO MAKE
AMERICANS UNDERSTAND THAT AND
SOME KIND OF MOVE THAT AT LEAST
SEE THAT THERE IS A NEED TO MAKE
PROVIDES A GLIMMER OF HOPE.
SOME KIND OF MOVE THAT AT LEAST
>> Woodruff: ANA CARBONELL, A
PROVIDES A GLIMMER OF HOPE.
GLIMMER OF HOPE H
>> Woodruff: ANA CARBONELL, A
>> WHAT THE CUBAN AMERICAN
GLIMMER OF HOPE H
COMMUNITY UNDERSTANDS AND MORE
>> WHAT THE CUBAN AMERICAN
IMPORTANTLY THE CUBANS ON THE
COMMUNITY UNDERSTANDS AND MORE
ISLAND THE PRESIDENT TODAY
IMPORTANTLY THE CUBANS ON THE
EQUATED THE CUBAN PEOPLE WITH
ISLAND THE PRESIDENT TODAY
THE REGIME, AND THAT'S MOST
EQUATED THE CUBAN PEOPLE WITH
UNFORTUNATE BECAUSE IT'S A
THE REGIME, AND THAT'S MOST
PROFOUND DIVORCE FROM A HISTORY
UNFORTUNATE BECAUSE IT'S A
OF BIPARTISAN SUPPORT WITH THE
PROFOUND DIVORCE FROM A HISTORY
CUBAN PEOPLE'S ASPIRATIONS TO BE
OF BIPARTISAN SUPPORT WITH THE
FREE.
CUBAN PEOPLE'S ASPIRATIONS TO BE
AND IT'S CRITICAL THAT AT THIS
FREE.
MOMENT IN CUBA'S HISTORY, WHEN
AND IT'S CRITICAL THAT AT THIS
WE SEE COUNTLESS PRODEMOCRACY
MOMENT IN CUBA'S HISTORY, WHEN
LEADERS ON THE ISLAND RISKING
WE SEE COUNTLESS PRODEMOCRACY
THEIR LIVES DAILY FOR FREEDOM
LEADERS ON THE ISLAND RISKING
AND DEMOCRACY, FOR THE U.S.
THEIR LIVES DAILY FOR FREEDOM
GOVERNMENT, ESPECIALLY FOR THE
AND DEMOCRACY, FOR THE U.S.
WHITE HOUSE, TO STAND WITH THE
GOVERNMENT, ESPECIALLY FOR THE
CUBAN PEOPLE.
WHITE HOUSE, TO STAND WITH THE
AND TODAY, BY THE PRESIDENT'S
CUBAN PEOPLE.
ACTIONS, UNILATERAL CONCESSIONS
AND TODAY, BY THE PRESIDENT'S
WITH THAT REGIME, HE BASICALLY
ACTIONS, UNILATERAL CONCESSIONS
TOLD THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY
WITH THAT REGIME, HE BASICALLY
THAT THE UNITED STATES IS
TOLD THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY
WILLING TO RECOGNIZE THE
THAT THE UNITED STATES IS
LEGITIMACY OF A REGIME THAT HAS
WILLING TO RECOGNIZE THE
OPRED THE CUBAN PEOPLE FOR 50
LEGITIMACY OF A REGIME THAT HAS
YEARS.
OPRED THE CUBAN PEOPLE FOR 50
THAT IS PROFOUNDLY SAD BECAUSE A
YEARS.
CRITICAL MOMENT IN CUBA'S
THAT IS PROFOUNDLY SAD BECAUSE A
DEMOCRACY, UNDERMINES THE
CRITICAL MOMENT IN CUBA'S
EFFORTS OF THOSE FIGHTING FOR
DEMOCRACY, UNDERMINES THE
CHANGE ON THE ISLAND.
EFFORTS OF THOSE FIGHTING FOR
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO ASK
CHANGE ON THE ISLAND.
BOTH OF YOU ABOUT WHAT THIS
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO ASK
MEANS FOR FAMILIES, CUBAN
BOTH OF YOU ABOUT WHAT THIS
AMERICAN FAMILY, FAMILIES
MEANS FOR FAMILIES, CUBAN
DIVIDED OVER WHAT'S HAPPENED
AMERICAN FAMILY, FAMILIES
BETWEEN THE U.S. AND CUBA.
DIVIDED OVER WHAT'S HAPPENED
MARIA TORRES, HOW DO YOU SEE
BETWEEN THE U.S. AND CUBA.
THAT FROM YOUR OWN PERSPECTIVE?
MARIA TORRES, HOW DO YOU SEE
>> I THINK THAT PEOPLE ARE TIRED
THAT FROM YOUR OWN PERSPECTIVE?
OF THE FAMILY DIVISIONS.
>> I THINK THAT PEOPLE ARE TIRED
PEOPLE TRAVEL.
OF THE FAMILY DIVISIONS.
THEY VOTE WITH THEIR FEET.
PEOPLE TRAVEL.
THEY ACTUALLY TRAVEL.
THEY VOTE WITH THEIR FEET.
THEY SEND MONEY TO THEIR
THEY ACTUALLY TRAVEL.
RELATIVES.
THEY SEND MONEY TO THEIR
I THINK THAT THIS POLICY SAYS
RELATIVES.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO ENGAGE FAMILY
I THINK THAT THIS POLICY SAYS
TO FALY.MI
IT'S IMPORTANT TO ENGAGE FAMILY
SO I THINK THAT IT DOES
TO FALY.MI
RECOGNIZE THAT DESPITE THE
SO I THINK THAT IT DOES
RHETORIC OF MANY OF THE ELECTED
RECOGNIZE THAT DESPITE THE
OFFICIALS, WHAT IS HAPPENING ON
RHETORIC OF MANY OF THE ELECTED
THE GROUND HERE IS PEOPLE ARE
OFFICIALS, WHAT IS HAPPENING ON
HELPING THEIR FAMILIES.
THE GROUND HERE IS PEOPLE ARE
THEY ARE BUILDING SMALL
HELPING THEIR FAMILIES.
BUSINESSES.
THEY ARE BUILDING SMALL
THOSE SMALL BUSINESSES WILL BE
BUSINESSES.
PART OF THE SUPPORT, IF YOU
THOSE SMALL BUSINESSES WILL BE
WILL, FOR TRANSNITION CUBA.
PART OF THE SUPPORT, IF YOU
BY THE WAY, MOST DISSIDENTS IN
WILL, FOR TRANSNITION CUBA.
CUBA WANT THIS TO HAPPEN BECAUSE
BY THE WAY, MOST DISSIDENTS IN
THEY UNDERSTAND THAT AS LONG AS
CUBA WANT THIS TO HAPPEN BECAUSE
THE UNITED STATES IS-- CAN BE
THEY UNDERSTAND THAT AS LONG AS
USED AS THE EXCUSE FOR THE CUBAN
THE UNITED STATES IS-- CAN BE
GOVERNMENT TO STAY IN POWER,
USED AS THE EXCUSE FOR THE CUBAN
THAT IS-- THAT CAN BE VERY
GOVERNMENT TO STAY IN POWER,
DANGEROUS, AND SO THEY ACTUALLY
THAT IS-- THAT CAN BE VERY
SUPPORT THE LIFTING OF AN
DANGEROUS, AND SO THEY ACTUALLY
EMBARGO.
SUPPORT THE LIFTING OF AN
THEY SUPPORT DIPLOMATIC
EMBARGO.
RELATIONS BECAUSE IT PUTS THE
THEY SUPPORT DIPLOMATIC
BALL IN THEIR COURT.
RELATIONS BECAUSE IT PUTS THE
>> THAT IS-- THAT IS COMPLETELY
BALL IN THEIR COURT.
NOT CORRECT, AND I COULDN'T
>> THAT IS-- THAT IS COMPLETELY
DISAGREE WITH YOU MORE.
NOT CORRECT, AND I COULDN'T
I COULD RATTLE OFF A LIST OF
DISAGREE WITH YOU MORE.
COUNTLESS PRODEMOCRACY LEADERS
I COULD RATTLE OFF A LIST OF
IN ON THE ISLAND, WHO HAVE TOLD
COUNTLESS PRODEMOCRACY LEADERS
THIS ADMINISTRATION HAVE, TOLD
IN ON THE ISLAND, WHO HAVE TOLD
CONGRESS NOW IS NOT THE TIME
THIS ADMINISTRATION HAVE, TOLD
BECAUSE WE NEED TO REMIND THE
CONGRESS NOW IS NOT THE TIME
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY THAT
BECAUSE WE NEED TO REMIND THE
CUBA IS NOT A DEMOCRACY.
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY THAT
AND NO ONE HERE IS ARGUING AS TO
CUBA IS NOT A DEMOCRACY.
DIVISIONS OF CUBAN FAMILIES.
AND NO ONE HERE IS ARGUING AS TO
CUBANS IN EXILE AND CUBANS ON
DIVISIONS OF CUBAN FAMILIES.
THE ISLAND ARE UNITED.
CUBANS IN EXILE AND CUBANS ON
THE ONLY DIVISION IN CUBA IS THE
THE ISLAND ARE UNITED.
CASTRO REGIME THAT USES
THE ONLY DIVISION IN CUBA IS THE
OPPRESSION AND VIOLENCE AND
CASTRO REGIME THAT USES
HARASSMENT TO MAINTAIN CONTROL.
OPPRESSION AND VIOLENCE AND
AND THAT'S WHAT'S AT STAKE HERE.
HARASSMENT TO MAINTAIN CONTROL.
>> Woodruff: LET ME --
AND THAT'S WHAT'S AT STAKE HERE.
>> THE CASTRO BROTHERS ARE NOT
>> Woodruff: LET ME --
GOING TO BE A PERMANENT FIXTURE
>> THE CASTRO BROTHERS ARE NOT
IN CUBA'S REALITY, AND U.S.
GOING TO BE A PERMANENT FIXTURE
POLICY REMINDS THE WORLD THAT
IN CUBA'S REALITY, AND U.S.
CUBA NEEDS TO TRANSITION TOWARDS
POLICY REMINDS THE WORLD THAT
DEMOCRACY, AND TODAY THE
CUBA NEEDS TO TRANSITION TOWARDS
PRESIDENT'S MEASURES UNDERMINES
DEMOCRACY, AND TODAY THE
THAT EFFORT.
PRESIDENT'S MEASURES UNDERMINES
>> Woodruff: I DO WANT TO TRY
THAT EFFORT.
TO GET TO THIS FAMILY QUESTION
>> Woodruff: I DO WANT TO TRY
WITH EACH OF YOU, IF I COULD.
TO GET TO THIS FAMILY QUESTION
IF I COULD JUST ASK EACH ONE OF
WITH EACH OF YOU, IF I COULD.
YOU, STARTING WITH YOU MARIA
IF I COULD JUST ASK EACH ONE OF
TORRES, IN YOUR OWN FAMILY'S
YOU, STARTING WITH YOU MARIA
CASE, WHAT HAS THIS MEANT TO
TORRES, IN YOUR OWN FAMILY'S
YOURURE FAMILY, THE DIVISION
CASE, WHAT HAS THIS MEANT TO
THAT'S BEEN TAKING
YOURURE FAMILY, THE DIVISION
THE LAST MORE THAN 50 YEARS.
THAT'S BEEN TAKING
>> WELL, I'M A PRODUCTAVE POLICY
THE LAST MORE THAN 50 YEARS.
FROM THIS END, BY THE WAY, THAT
>> WELL, I'M A PRODUCTAVE POLICY
BROUGHT CHILDREN OVER AND
FROM THIS END, BY THE WAY, THAT
DIVIDED FAMILIES.
BROUGHT CHILDREN OVER AND
I WAS ALSO A PRODUCT FROM THE
DIVIDED FAMILIES.
OTHER END OF A GOVERNMENT THAT
I WAS ALSO A PRODUCT FROM THE
DIDN'T ALLOW US TO REUNITE WITH
OTHER END OF A GOVERNMENT THAT
OUR FAMILIES.
DIDN'T ALLOW US TO REUNITE WITH
WE'VE HAD FAMILIES SPREAD OUT
OUR FAMILIES.
THROUGH BOTH SIDES OF THE
WE'VE HAD FAMILIES SPREAD OUT
FLORIDA STRAITS AND WE STILL
THROUGH BOTH SIDES OF THE
HAVE FAMILIES, AND IT HAS BEEN
FLORIDA STRAITS AND WE STILL
AT TIMES VERY DIFFICULT TO HELP
HAVE FAMILIES, AND IT HAS BEEN
THEM.
AT TIMES VERY DIFFICULT TO HELP
IT HAS GOTTEN EASIER IN THE LAST
THEM.
FEW YEARS.
IT HAS GOTTEN EASIER IN THE LAST
THEIR LIVEARES  BETTER.
FEW YEARS.
IT HAS NOT MADE THEM PROREGIME.
THEIR LIVEARES  BETTER.
IT HAS MADE THEM MORE PRO-U.S.,
IT HAS NOT MADE THEM PROREGIME.
AND IT HAS BEEN ABLE-- IT HAS
IT HAS MADE THEM MORE PRO-U.S.,
ALLOWED FOR FAM THESE ACTUALLY
AND IT HAS BEEN ABLE-- IT HAS
COME TOGETHER.
ALLOWED FOR FAM THESE ACTUALLY
THE ANIMOSITY THAT USED TO EXIST
COME TOGETHER.
BEFORE THE CARTER ADMINISTRATION
THE ANIMOSITY THAT USED TO EXIST
IS AN ANIMOSITY THAT'S GONE.
BEFORE THE CARTER ADMINISTRATION
IT'S GONE.
IS AN ANIMOSITY THAT'S GONE.
I MEAN, PEOPLE REALIZE THAT THEY
IT'S GONE.
NEED TO WORK TOGETHER.
I MEAN, PEOPLE REALIZE THAT THEY
>> Woodruff: ANA CARBONELL,
NEED TO WORK TOGETHER.
WHAT ABOUT IN YOUR CASE, IN YOUR
>> Woodruff: ANA CARBONELL,
OWN FAMILY?
WHAT ABOUT IN YOUR CASE, IN YOUR
HOW IS IT DEALT WITH, THE
OWN FAMILY?
DIVISION?
HOW IS IT DEALT WITH, THE
DID YOUR-- TELL ME ABOUT YOUR
DIVISION?
PARENTS AND YOUR GRANDPARENTS.
DID YOUR-- TELL ME ABOUT YOUR
>> MY PARENTS CAME IN THE
PARENTS AND YOUR GRANDPARENTS.
1960s.
>> MY PARENTS CAME IN THE
MY FATHER WAS PART OF THE BAY OF
1960s.
PIGS.
MY FATHER WAS PART OF THE BAY OF
I'VE HAD POLITICAL PRISONERS IN
PIGS.
MY FAMILY.
I'VE HAD POLITICAL PRISONERS IN
I'VE SEEN THE REPRESSION ON THE
MY FAMILY.
ISLAND.
I'VE SEEN THE REPRESSION ON THE
TODAY, I MAINTAIN CONTACT WITH
ISLAND.
THOSE VACATING PEACEFULLY FOR
TODAY, I MAINTAIN CONTACT WITH
PRO-DEMOCRACY.
THOSE VACATING PEACEFULLY FOR
WHAT'S SAD ABOUT THIS IS THE
PRO-DEMOCRACY.
EFFORT TO TRY TO PROPAGATE THIS
WHAT'S SAD ABOUT THIS IS THE
MISNOMER ABOUT DIVISIONS AMONG
EFFORT TO TRY TO PROPAGATE THIS
CUBANS.
MISNOMER ABOUT DIVISIONS AMONG
THE REALITY IS THAT THERE IS A
CUBANS.
TOTAL CONSCIOUS, AND NO MEASURE
THE REALITY IS THAT THERE IS A
OF AMERICAN TOURISM OR
TOTAL CONSCIOUS, AND NO MEASURE
INVESTMENT ON THE PART OF
OF AMERICAN TOURISM OR
AMERICAN BUSINESSES IS-- WILL
INVESTMENT ON THE PART OF
ENCOURAGE OR CONVINCE THE CUBAN
AMERICAN BUSINESSES IS-- WILL
PEOPLE THAT THE REGIME IS BAD.
ENCOURAGE OR CONVINCE THE CUBAN
THE CUBAN PEOPLE ARE THE
PEOPLE THAT THE REGIME IS BAD.
VICTIMES OF THAT REGIME.
THE CUBAN PEOPLE ARE THE
THEY'VE SEEN FIRSTHAND.
VICTIMES OF THAT REGIME.
THEY DON'T NEED ANYONE TELL THEM
THEY'VE SEEN FIRSTHAND.
BECAUSE THEY'VE LIVED IT THROUGH
THEY DON'T NEED ANYONE TELL THEM
THE 55 YEARS OF THIS
BECAUSE THEY'VE LIVED IT THROUGH
TOTALITARIAN SYSTEM.
THE 55 YEARS OF THIS
WHAT'S AT STAKE HERE IS WHAT DO
TOTALITARIAN SYSTEM.
WE WANT FOR THE FUTURE OF CUBA?
WHAT'S AT STAKE HERE IS WHAT DO
DO WE WANT A CHINA MODEL THAT
WE WANT FOR THE FUTURE OF CUBA?
PERPETUATES THE SLAVERY OF THE
DO WE WANT A CHINA MODEL THAT
CUBAN PEOPLE OR DO WE WANT TO
PERPETUATES THE SLAVERY OF THE
LEVERAGE U.S. FOREIGN POLICY,
CUBAN PEOPLE OR DO WE WANT TO
LEVERAGE THE STRENGTH OF
LEVERAGE U.S. FOREIGN POLICY,
AMERICAN SOLIDARITY, TO INSIST
LEVERAGE THE STRENGTH OF
THAT THE FUTURE OF CUBA DESERVES
AMERICAN SOLIDARITY, TO INSIST
TO BE IN A MULTIPARTY SYSTEM
THAT THE FUTURE OF CUBA DESERVES
WHERE THE CUBAN PEOPLE ON THE
TO BE IN A MULTIPARTY SYSTEM
ISLAND ARE FREE TO HAVE THE
WHERE THE CUBAN PEOPLE ON THE
RIGHT TO SELF-DETERMINATION.
ISLAND ARE FREE TO HAVE THE
WHY DO THEY NOT DESERVE THAT?
RIGHT TO SELF-DETERMINATION.
>> Woodruff: WELL, IT MAN A
WHY DO THEY NOT DESERVE THAT?
NEWLY ANNOUNCED POLICY, BUT IT
>> Woodruff: WELL, IT MAN A
CLEARLY HAS NOT SLOWED DOWN THE
NEWLY ANNOUNCED POLICY, BUT IT
DEBATE AT ALL.
CLEARLY HAS NOT SLOWED DOWN THE
WE WANT TO THANK BOTH OF YOU FOR
DEBATE AT ALL.
TALKING TO US, ANA CARBONELL, DE
WE WANT TO THANK BOTH OF YOU FOR
LOS ANGELES TORRES, THANK YOU.
TALKING TO US, ANA CARBONELL, DE
>> THANK YOU.
LOS ANGELES TORRES, THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW, NOT SHOWING AT
A THEATER NEAR YOU: THAT'S THE
LATEST FALLOUT FROM ONE OF THE
BIGGEST AND MOST PUBLIC
CORPORATE HACKINGS IN HISTORY.
JUST A SHORT TIME AGO, SONY
PICTURES ANNOUNCED IT'S
CANCELING THE CHRISTMAS DAY
RELEASE OF A MOVIE THAT'S BEEN
AT THE CENTER OF ALL OF THIS,
AND THE SUBJECT OF SECURITY
WORRIES.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> Woodruff: SINCE 9/11,
AMERICAN BUSINESSES HAVE BEEN
>> Bwn: roIT BEGAN AS A
COMEDY, A HOLLYWOOD COMEDY
CALLED "THE INTERVIEW," THE ONE
WITH A RATHER TWISTED PREMISE.
>> YOU WANT US TO KILL THE
LEADER OF NORTH KOREA?
>> YES.
>> WHAT!
>> Brown: NO W,THE FILM
STARRING SETH ROGAN AND JAMES
FRANCO, HAS SPARK AID MUCH
DARKER TALE OF CYBER CRIME,
ARTISTIC LICENSE, FILM INDUSTRY
INTRIGUE, DWEO POLITICS AND EVEN
THREATS OF TERRORISM.
SONY PICTURES, THE STUDIO THAT
MADE THE FILM, HAS BEEN THE
TARGET OF A LARGE-SCALE HACK OF
ITS COMPUTER DATA.
WITH A GROUP CALLING ITSELF THE
GUARDIANS OF PEACE CLAIMING
RESPONSIBILITY FOR NEAR-DAILY
LEAKS OF INTERNAL DOCUMENTS,
E-MAILS, AND OTHER INFORMATION.
ONE QUESTION-- WHO DONE IT?
FROM THE OUTSIDE SUSPICION SUSPE
FALLEN ON NORTH KOREA, WHICH
EARLY ON MADE CLEAR ITS ANGER
THAT A FILM THAT PORTRAYS A PLOT
TO ASSASSINATE ITS LEADER KIM
JONG UN, CALLING IT "AN ACT OF
WAR."
EARLIER THIS MONTH, NORTH KOREAN
STATE-RUN TV SAID THE STUDIO GOT
WHAT IT DESERVED.
>> ( translated ): THIS HACK
ATTACK TOWARDS THE U.S. FILM
PRODUCER SONY PICTURES IS
CLEARLY THE RIGHTEOUS ACT OF OUR
SYMPATHIZERS AND SUPPORTERS WHO
CAMEED FOR FOLLOWING OUR APPEAL.
THUS THE MISFORTUNE THAT SEWN
PICTURES EXPERIENCED ONLY BE
SEEN AS A JUST PUNISHMENT FOR
ITS EVIL DOINGS AND UNJUSTIFIED
ACTIONS.
>> Reporter: FORMER U.S. ENVOY
TO NORTH KOREA, TOLD US THE
TOTALITARIAN REGIME HAS THE
MEANS AND DETERMINATION TO CARRY
THIS OUT.
>> I'VE BEEN TO THEIR
UNIVERSITY, SEEN SOME OF THEIR
COMPUTER LABS.
THEY'VE GOT THE EQUIPMENT AND
THEY CLEARLY HAVE THE FOCUS AND
ATTENTION OF DOING THIS.
THE NORTH KOREANS ARE CAPABLE OF
HOLDING ON TO A GRUDGE AND
PLAYING IT OUT.
IN THIS PARTICULAR CASE, THERE'S
NO SNEAKING GUN, SO THEY CAN
CONTINUE TO DO WHAT THEY WANT.
>> Brown: STILL, UNCERTAINTY
REMAINS.
THERE'S ALSO BEEN CONJECTURE
ABOUT DISGRUNTLED EMPLOYEES PAST
OR PRESENT.
IN THE MEANTIME, THE FLOOD OF
LEAKED CORPORATE DOCUMENTS HAS
CONTINUED.
"WALL STREET JOURNAL" REPORTER
BEN FRITZ:
>> THESE E-MAILS ARE AN AMAZING
INSIGHT INTO HOW A MAJOR FILM
STUDIO WORKS BECAUSE YOU JUST
HAVE SOMEONE'S PURE INBOX, WITH
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF MESSAGES.
IT'S DAMAGING IN ALL SORTS OF
WAYS FROM THE EMBARRASSING ALL
THE WAY UP TO THE ACTUALLY
PROPRIETARY INFORMATION THAT NOW
THEIR COMPETITORS HAVE ON THE
WAY THEY DO BUSINESS.
>> Brown: AMONG THE SENSITIVE
MATERIAL RELEASED, PRIVATE
CORRESPONDENCES AMONG SONY
EXECUTIVES, INCLUDING
DISCUSSIONS ON WHETHER AND HOW
TO ALTER THE FILM'S CONTENT.
INSIDE INFORMATION ON SALARIES,
SOME SHOWING WIDE DISPARITIES IN
THE PAY OF MEN AND WOMEN.
SCRIPTS AND EVEN HIGH-QUALITY
COPIES OF MOVIESIET TO BE
RELEASED, AND OLD-FASHIONED
GOSSIP, REPLETE WITH DISPARAGING
REMARKS ABOUT STARS SUCH AS
ANGELINA JOLIE AND RACIALLY
TINGED COMMENTS ABOUT PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S TASTE IN MOVIES.
ALL IN ALL, SAYS BEN FRITZ, IT'S
BADLY SHAKEN THE COMPANY AND THE
INDUSTRY AS A WHOLE.
>> FOR SONY PICTURES IT'S BEEN
DAMAGING.
ALL THE OTHER STUDIOS IN
HOLLYWOOD ARE FRIGHTENED THEY
COULD BE NEXT.
THEY'RE TRYING TO BE MORE
CAREFUL ABOUT THE INFORMATION
THEY SHARE IN E-MAILS AND
DOCUMENTS ON THEIR COMPUTERS.
>> Brown: YESTERDAY, THE
COMPANY GOT HIT WITH A LAWSUIT
FROM TWO FORMER EMPLOYEES FOR
NOT PROTECTING SOCIAL SECURITY
NUMBERS, SALARY DETAILS AND
OTHER PERSONAL RECORDS.
SONY HAS FOUGHT BACK IN ONE WAY,
HIRING HIGH-PROFILE LAWYER,
DAVID BOYCE, WHO IN A LETTER ON
SUNDAY, WARNED NEWS
ORGANIZATIONS NOT TO PUBLISH
DETAILS FROM THE LEAKED FILES IN
THAT THEY CONNECTICUT TAIN
PRIVATE INFORMATION.
ADAM SORKIN ALSO CRITICIZED THE
MEDIA WRITING, "EVERY NEWS
OUTLET THAT DID THE BIDDING OF
THE GUARDIANS OF PEACE IS
MORALLY TREASONOUS AND
SPECTACULARLY DISHONORABLE."
BUT THE LAST 48 HOURS HAVE TAKEN
ON A NEW URGENCY, AND EVEN A
DARKER THREAT FOR MOVIE THEATERS
THIS HOLIDAY SEASON AS THE
GUARDIANS OF PEACE ISSUED A NEW
MESSAGE SAYING PEOPLE WHO PLAN
TO SEE THE MOVIE "SEEK FUN IN
TERROR," AND "SHOULD BE DOOMED
TO A BITTER FATE."
THE MESSAGE ALSO INCLUDED A
REFERENCE SOSEPTEMBER 11.
THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND
SECURITY SAID IT HAD NOT YET
SEEN CREDIBLE INTELLIGENCE OF AN
ACTIVE PLOT BUT IS INVESTIGATING
THE THREAT.
LAST NIGHT, LOS ANGELES POLICE
CHIEF CHARLIE BECK HAD THIS TO
SAY:
>> WELL, WE TAKE THOSE THREATS
VERY SERIOUSLY AND WE WILL TAKE
EXTRA PRECAUTIONS DURING THE
HOLIDAYS AT THEATERS.
WE'RE VERY AWARE OF THE
CONTROVERSY SURROUNDING SONY
STUDIOS, SO WE'LL TAKE THAT INTO
ACCOUNT.
>> Brown:- GOERS IN LOS
ANGELES HAD MIXED RESPONSES.
>> I DON'T EVEN KNOW WHY THEY
MADE IT.
LIKE, IT JUST SEEMS LIKE A BUNCH
OF COMEDIENNES TRYING TO BE
CREATIVE.
AND I DEFINITELY WON'T GO SEE
IT, THOUGH.
NOW THAT THEY SAY THERE'S SOME
SORT OF DANGER INVOLVED, I'M
DEFINITELY NOT SEEING IT.
>> THE WAY HOMELAND SECURITY IS
SET UP, IT'S VIRTUALLY
IMPOSSIBLE.
NO I'M NOT SCARED.
WHY WOULD I BE SCARED?
>> Brown: BUT TODAY, EVENTS
SPIRALED EVER FURTHER, AND LATE
THIS AFTERNOON, SONY ANNOUNCED
IT WAS CANCELLING THE RELEASE OF
THE FILM WHICH HAD BEEN
SCHEDULED FOR CHRISTMAS DAY.
THAT CAME AFTER THE NATION'S
LARGEST THEATER CHAINS HAD SAID
THEY WOULD NOT PLAY THE MOVIES
PENDING RESULTS OF LAW
ENFORCEMENT INVESTIGATIONS.
AS LATE AS MONDAY, SETH ROGAN,
WHO ALSO CODIRECTED THE OF "THE
INTERVIEW," WAS DEFENDING HIS
FILM LIKE THIS ON ABC'S "GOOD
MORNING AMERICA.
>> WE JUST WANTED TO MAKE A
REALLY FUNNY, ENTERTAINING
MOVIE, AND THE MOVIE ITSELF IS
VERY SILLY AND IT WASN'T MEANT
TO BE CONTROVERSIAL IN ANY WAY.
IT WAS REALLY JUST MEANT TO BE
ENTERTAINING.
>> Brown: A SILLY MOVIE,
PERHAPS, BUT ONE THAT HAS
BROUGHT AN UNPRECEDENTED
FIRESTORM TO HOLLYWOOD AND
BEYOND.
I'M JEFFREY BROWN FOR THE PBS
NEWSHOUR.
LATE-BREAKING NEWS, THES YOU
U.S. GOVERNMENT IS CONFIRMING
THAT NORTH KOREA IS BEHIND THE
HACKING AT SONY.
>> Woodruff: SINCE 9/11,
AMERICAN BUSINESSES HAVE BEEN
ABLE TO BUY INSURANCE POLICIES
COVERING A TERRORIST ATTACK
THROUGH A PUBLIC/PRIVATE
PARTNERSHIP KNOWN AS THE
TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE ACT.
BUT, FOR THE FIRST TIME,
CONGRESS LEFT THIS WEEK WITHOUT
FUNDING IT, BECAUSE OF
OBJECTIONS BY ONE SENATOR.
IT COULD HAVE AN AFFECT ON
BUSINESSES COAST TO COAST, AS
THEY WONDER WHAT HAPPENS IN CASE
OF THE WORST.
JOINING US NOW IS LEIGH ANN
PUSEY, PRESIDENT AND C.E.O. OF
THE AMERICAN INSURANCE
ASSOCIATION.
AND WE WELCOME YOU TO THE
PROGRAM.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: SO WHY IS THIS
TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE SO
IMPORTANT?
WHY DO BUSINESSES NEED IT?
>> WELL, TERRORISM IS A VERY
UNIQUE RISK FOR INSURANCE.
IT'S VERY HARD TO CONCEIVE OF
THE KINDS OF LOSSES THAT CAN BE
ASSOCIATED WITH THE TERRORIST
ATTACK.
THEY'RE WELL BEYOND THE CAPACITY
OF THE INSURANCE MARKET RIGHT
NOW TO PROVIDE THAT.
SO WHAT WE LEARNED AFTER 9/11
WAS THAT INSURANCE HAD BEEN
BASICALLY A NATURAL PART OF
COVERAGE BUT AFTER 9/11, THE
MARKET RETREATED BECAUSE ALL OF
A SUDDEN, IT REALIZED THAT THIS
WAS A HUGE POTENTIAL RISK AND IT
TOOK A PARTNERSHIP TO REALLY
ENTICE THE PRIVATE MARKET BACK
INTO PROVIDING THIS COVERAGE
WHICH IS, IN ESSENCE, AN
ECONOMIC SECURITY MATCHED UP
WITH THE GOVERNMENT'S NATIONAL
SECURITY EFFORTS BECAUSE IT
REALLY HELPS US HAVE AN ORDERLY
RECOVER AFTER AN INNOCENT.
>> Woodruff: WHAT WOULD
TRIGGER INSURANCE LIKE THIS?
WHAT WOULD HAVE TO HAPPEN FOR
THE U.S. GOVERNMENT TO HAVE TO
COME IN AND, FRANKLY, BACK UP
WHAT THE INSURANCE COMPANIES ARE
SAYING?
>> WELL, RIGHT NOW, THE PROGRAM
ANTICIPATEAISE FAIRLY
SUBSTANTIAL PARTICIPATION BY THE
PRIVATE MARKET.
YOU WOULD HAVE TO SEE AN EVENT
PROBABLY THE SIDE OF 9/11 BEFORE
THE GOVERNMENT WOULD HAVE TO BE
TABBED TO BACKSTOB INSURERS.
SHERS ARE SITTING ON 20%
DEDUCTIBLES OF THEIR PREMIUMS.
THAT TRANSLATES TO SOME
COMPANIES FOR AS MUCH AS $1
BILLION, $2 BILLION OF LOSSES
THEY WOULD PAY BEFORE THEY
TAPPED THE BACKSTOP.
EVEN AFTER MEETING THE
KEDUCTIBLE, THEY WOULD PAY 15,
20%.
THERE'S A LOT OF SKIN IN THE
GAME BY THE INDUSTRY.
IT'S GLOAN OVER THE YEARS SINCE
9/11.
IT WOULD HAVE TO BE A
CATASTROPHIC-LEVEL EVENT FOR THE
GOVERNMENT TO HAVE TO STEP IN.
>> Woodruff: LET ME READ YOU
ONE COMMENT, SENATOR TOM COBURN,
THE SENATOR FROM OKLAHOMA, THE
ONE RESPONSIBLE FOR HOLDING THIS
UP THIS WEEK SAID.
HE SAID, "THIS PROGRAM HAS MADE
THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY $40
BILLION IN THE LAST 12 YEARS."
HE SAID AMERICAN TAXPAYERS TAKE
ALL THE RISK EXCEPT FOR 35% AND
THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY TAKES THE
MONEY.
>> WELL, WHAT THE INSURANCE
INDUSTRY IS DOING IS STEPPING IN
AND PROVIDING FOR AN ORDERLY
ECONOMIC RECOVERY THAT OTHERWISE
THE TAXPAYER WOULD BE ON THE
HOOK FOR THE FIRST DOLLAR OF IT.
HAVE WE CHARGED A PREMIUM FOR
THAT RISK?
SURE.
THAT'S A MARKET FORCE I WOULD
THINK SENATOR COURN AND OTHERS
IN PRO-MARKET VOICES WOULD LIKE
TO SEE HAPPEN.
MORE WE GET COMFORTABLE ABOUT
THE RISK AND LEARN OF IT WE WILL
TAKE ON MORE OF IT.
IT WILL NEVER BE A RISK THAT CAN
BE TOTALLY BORNE BY THE PRIVATE
MARKET.
>> Woodruff: WHY NOT?
>> NATIONAL SECURITY TERRORISM
IS A NATIONAL SECURITY ISSUE.
IT'S THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT WHO HAS THE
DATA, THE KNOW, THE KNOW-HOW--
YOU JUST RAN A PIECE ABOUT THEM
CONFIRMING WHAT THEY MAY OR MAY
NOT KNOW ABOUT THE THREATS
RELATED TO SONY.
WELL, THEY HAVE THAT KNOWLEDGE.
NOBODY INSURING SONY HAS THAT
KNOWLEDGE.
THEY HAVE THAT KNOWLEDGE.
WE DON'T WANT THAT KNOWLEDGE, BY
THE WAY, BUT WHAT IT MEANS IS
INSURERS ARE LIMITED IN HOW MUCH
THEY CAN UNDERWRITE THIS AND HOW
MUCH EXPOSURE THEY CAN TAKE ON.
THIS CURRENT PROGRAM PROVIDES
$100 BILLION.
THERE'S NOT $100 BILLION OF
PRIVATE MARKET CAPACITY.
IF YOU WANT TO PROVIDE ECONOMIC
STABILITY AND GROWTH THEN YOU
NEED A PARTNERSHIP.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DOES IT
MEAN, LEIGH ANN PUSEY, THAT THIS
INSURANCE NOT EXTENDED?
IT DOESN'T EXIST, RIGHT?
>> IT MEANS AFTER DECEMBER 31,
THERE IS NO BACKSTOP, AND
INSURANCE COMPANIES AND
C.E.O.s-- I SPOKE TO ONE AS I
WAS DRIVING OVER HERE THIS
EVENING-- ARE EMPLOYING THEIR
CONTINGENCY EVENTS.
THEY'RE HAVING TO PUT THEIR
CONTINGENCY PLANS INTO PLACE.
THEY'RE GOING TO LOOK AT THEIR
EXPOSURES.
AND I BELIEVE OVER THE COMING
WEEKS WE ARE GOING TO SEE MORE
AND MORE MARKET REACTION TO
THIS.
WHAT THAT MIGHT MEAN IS CAPACITY
WILL SHRINK OVER TIME, AND THE
PRICE OF THIS MIGHT GO UP IN
CERTAIN MARKETS.
THIS ISN'T JUST ABOUT TALL
BUILDINGS IN NEW YORK.
IT'S ABOUT PROPERTIES AND
BUSINESSES ALL AROUND THE
COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE SAYING
THEY WON'T GET BUILT?
>> SOME PROJECTS COULD BE
DELAYED.
LOANS REQUIRE BACKSTOP BY
INSURANCE COVERAGE AND
PROTECTION ON THIS.
THINK ABOUT THE SMALL BUSINESS
DRY CLEANER IN THE SHADOW OF THE
TROPHY PROPERTY IN NEW YORK.
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE A HARD
TIME FINDING CAPACITY JUST BY
SHEER VIRTUE OF WHERE THEY'RE
LOCATED.
>> Woodruff: LEIGH ANN PUSEY,
FROM THE AMERICAN ENTERPRISE
INSTITUTE, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: IN THE AFTERMATH OF
THE POLICE SHOOTING IN FERGUSON,
MISSOURI, AND THE CHOKEHOLD
DEATH OF A MAN IN NEW YORK CITY,
CIVIL RIGHTS GROUPS AND EVEN THE
PRESIDENT HAVE CALLED FOR AN
INCREASE IN THE USE OF BODY
CAMERAS BY POLICE DEPARTMENTS.
HARI SREENIVASAN TAKES US TO ONE
TOWN WHERE THEY RECENTLY BEGAN
USING THEM.
>> IF IT'S GREEN AND I'M READY
TO GO OUT ON A SHIFT, I PICK IT
UP, I FLICK IT SO IT'S LIKE
THAT.
ONCE IT TURNS GREEN IT WILL BE
READY FOR ME TO START RECORDING.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR THE LAST
FIVE MONTHS, POLICE OFFICER
DANIELLE TORRES HAS BEEN WEARING
A SMALL BODY CAMERA WHEN SHE'S
OUT POLICING THE STREETS OF
EVESHAM, NEW JERSEY, A COMMUTER
TOWN JUST 20 MILES SOUTHEAST OF
PHILADELPHIA.
>> THE BODY CAMERA SEES
EVERYTHING FROM ME OUT, ALMOST
AS IF ITS MY EYES.
WHEREAS THE IN-CAR CAMERAS ONLY
SEE A STATIONARY VIEW OF WHAT'S
IN MY PATROL CAR.
>> Sreenivasan: HER DEPARTMENT
IS ONE OF DOZENS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY THAT HAVE ADOPTED THIS
SURVEILLANCE EQUIPMENT.
AND CHIEF CHRISTOPHER CHEW, WHO
HIMSELF WEARS ONE, SAYS HIS
OFFICERS HAVE ALL EMBRACED THE
NEW POLICING TOOL.
>> THEY SEE THE BENEFITS, NOT
ONLY SHORT TERM BUT LONG TERM,
BECAUSE IT'S THERE TO PROTECT
THEM, NOT ONLY FROM FRIVOLOUS
LAWSUITS BUT ALSO IT'S CAPTURING
WHAT THEY'RE DOING, BECAUSE
THEY'RE DOING GREAT WORK.
NOW THEY HAVE THE ABILITY TO GO
TO COURT AND SHOW THEY WERE
DOING THE RIGHT THING.
OUR OFFICERS WANT EVERYTHING
RECORDED TO PROTECT THEM.
>> Sreenivasan: THE EQUIPMENT IS
EXPENSIVE, CAMERAS CAN COST UP
TO $1,000 A PIECE WITH DATA
STORAGE COSTS FAR EXCEEDING
THAT.
EARLIER THIS MONTH PRESIDENT
OBAMA ASKED THAT $75 MILLION BE
SPENT TO PURCHASE SUCH CAMERAS
FOR DEPARTMENTS ALL ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
>> I'M GOING TO BE PROPOSING
SOME NEW COMMUNITY POLICING
INITIATIVES THAT WILL
SIGNIFICANTLY EXPAND FUNDING AND
TRAINING FOR LOCAL LAW
ENFORCEMENT, INCLUDING UP TO
50,000 ADDITIONAL BODY WORN
CAMERAS FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT
AGENCIES.
>> Sreenivasan: THE MOVE COMES
IN THE WAKE OF THE SHOOTING
DEATH OF MICHAEL BROWN BY A
POLICE OFFICER IN FERGUSON,
MISSOURI, LAST AUGUST.
AN INCIDENT THAT WAS NOT
CAPTURED ON VIDEO.
>> AS SOON AS THAT EVENT
HAPPENED, THE IMMEDIATE REACTION
WAS WHERE'S THE VIDEO?
HOW COME THEY DON'T HAVE VIDEO?
>> Sreenivasan: DAVID HARRIS IS
A PROFESSOR AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
PITTSBURGH LAW SCHOOL.
HE PREDICTS BODY CAMERAS WILL
SOON BE WIDELY USED BY
DEPARTMENTS EVERYWHERE.
>> POLICE NEED TO TAKE THIS ON
ON THEIR OWN TERMS.
TO HAVE THEIR OWN WAYS OF
LOOKING AT THIS.
THE PUBLIC WILL BE SERVED
BECAUSE THERE WILL BE GREATER
ACCOUNTABILITY, THERE CAN BE A
MUCH BETTER, MORE NUANCED
RECORD.
AND THE POLICE HAVE BEGUN TO
REALIZE, JUST AS THEY DID YEARS
AGO WITH DASH CAMS, THAT THEIR
INTERESTS WILL BE SERVED AS
WELL.
>> Sreenivasan: STILL EVEN
HARRIS CONCEDES THAT BODY
CAMERAS DON'T NECESSARILY MEAN
POLICE WILL BE HELD MORE
ACCOUNTABLE.
EARLIER THIS MONTH, A NEW YORK
CITY GRAND JURY DECIDED NOT TO
INDICT AN OFFICER IN THE
CHOKEHOLD DEATH OF ERIC GARNER,
IN SPITE OF THE FACT THE
INCIDENT WAS VIDEOTAPED BY
BYSTANDERS.
>> WE KNOW THAT EVEN IF YOU SEE
IT ON CAMERA, THERE CAN STILL BE
BIASES.
YOU ONLY HAVE ONE CAMERA ANGLE
OR THE ONE YOU HAVE ONLY SHOWS
PART OF THE ACTION.
OR YOU HAVE SITUATIONS IN WHICH
THERE HAS BEEN EDITING.
>> Sreenivasan: JAY STANLEY, A
POLICY ANALYST WITH THE AMERICAN
CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION, AGREES
THE JURY IS STILL OUT ON THE
EFFECTIVENESS OF THESE CAMERAS.
HIS ORGANIZATIONAS GIVEN
QUALIFIED SUPPORT OF THEIR USE
IF STRICT, CONSISTENT PRIVACY
POLICIES ARE ADOPTED.
>> THERE NEEDS TO BE VERY GOOD
POLICIES TO INSURE THAT VIDEO
FOOTAGE THAT POLICE TAKE, AND A
LARGE PERCENTAGE OF CALLS ARE
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, WHERE THEY
ARE ENTERING PEOPLE'S HOMES,
SEEING PEOPLE AT THE WORST
MOMENTS OF THEIR LIVES.
IS NOT GOING TO END UP ON
YOUTUBE OR GET PASSED AROUND
POLICE OFFICERS FOR LAUGHS.
SO THERE NEEDS TO BE VERY TIGHT
CONTROLS OVER THE VIDEO DATA
THAT IS COLLECTED, WHO HAS
ACCESS TO IT, HOW LONG IT IS
RETAINED AND WHAT IT IS USED
FOR.
>> Sreenivasan: AND STANLEY
SAYS, OFFICERS CANNOT BE ALLOWED
TO ALTER THE FOOTAGE.
>> THE CRUCIAL THING IS THAT
POLICE OFFICERS NOT BE ABLE TO
EDIT ON THE FLY BY TURNING THE
CAMERAS OFF AND ON AT WILL.
OR IF THEY GET INVOLVED IN A
DUBIOUS INCIDENT, FINDING A WAY
TO MAKE THE FOOTAGE DISAPPEAR,
ALL OF WHICH WE'VE SEEN HAPPEN
AROUND THE COUNTRY.
>> Sreenivasan: ALTHOUGH BODY
CAM RULES VARY WIDELY FROM CITY
TO CITY, THE EVESHAM POLICE
DEPARTMENT SAYS IT HAS TAKEN
PRECAUTIONS AGAINST THOSE
ABUSES.
THE CAMERAS ARE RECORDING ALL
THE TIME, ALTHOUGH FOOTAGE IS
ONLY SAVED STARTING 30 SECONDS
PRIOR TO AN OFFICER HITTING THE
BUTTON.
THAT FOOTAGE IS THEN
AUTOMATICALLY UPLOADED TO THE
CLOUD AT THE END OF EVERY SHIFT.
AND A DIGITAL RECORD IS KEPT OF
ANYONE WHO TRIES TO ACCESS IT.
>> AFTER A SHIFT, YOU TAKE IT
OFF, PUT IT IN ONE OF THESE
PORTS AND IT WILL DOWNLOAD THE
VIDEO ON THE CLOUD.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU CAN'T EDIT
THE VIDEO? DELETE THE VIDEO?
>> NO.
NOT AT ALL.
>> Sreenivasan: ADVOCATES OF THE
CAMERAS SAY WIDESPREAD USE COULD
LEAD TO BETTER BEHAVIOR BY
EVERYONE INVOLVED.
THEY POINT TO SEVERAL STUDIES,
THE RIALTO, CALIFORNIA POLICE
DEPARTMENT FOUND THERE WAS A 59%
REDUCTION IN THE USE OF FORCE BY
OFFICERS AND AN 88% REDUCTION IN
COMPLAINTS AFTER BODY CAMERAS
WERE USED.
AND IN A CONTROLLED STUDY IN
MESA, ARIZONA WHERE ONLY HALF
THE FORCE WAS GIVEN CAMERAS,
THERE WERE THREE TIMES MORE
COMPLAINTS LODGED AGAINST
OFFICERS WITHOUT CAMERAS THAN
OFFICERS WHO WORE THEM.
HOW DO YOU EXPECT BODY CAMERAS
TO CHANGE HOW AN OFFICER
BEHAVES?
>> THE OFFICER NOW KNOWS THAT
EVERYTHING THEY DO WHEN THEY
HAVE CONTACT WITH A CITIZEN IS
NOW AUDIO AND VIDEO RECORDED.
IT PUTS THEM ON A NEW LEVEL.
WE NOW HAVE THE ABILITY AS AN
ORGANIZATION TO GO BACK WITH
CHECKS AND BALANCES TO MAKE SURE
THEY'RE FOLLOWING PROPER
PROTOCOLS.
>> Sreenivasan: WILL IT CHANGE
BEHAVIOR OF CITIZENS?
>> I WOULD THINK SO.
>> Sreenivasan: IF AUTHORIZED BY
CONGRESS, THE FEDERAL MONEY FOR
NEW BODY CAMERAS WOULD NEARLY
DOUBLE THE NUMBER OF CAMERAS
THAT ARE CURRENTLY IN USE.
>> Woodruff: AT 11:25 P.M. LAST
NIGHT THE GAVEL HIT THE PODIUM
IN THE U.S. SENATE, ENDING THE
113TH CONGRESS, THE LEAST
PRODUCTIVE IN TERMS OF BILLS
PASSED IN THE MODERN ERA.
TONIGHT WE LOOK AT THE MANY
LONGTIME MEMBERS OF CONGRESS WHO
HAVE JUST LEFT OFFICE.
IN THEIR OWN WORDS.
POLITICS EDITOR LISA DESJARDINS
BRINGS US WHAT WE CAN LEARN WHEN
POLITICIANS SAY FAREWELL.
>> Reporter: THE BUILDING IS
SEEN BY MANY A SYMBOL OF
DYSFUNCTION.
BUT IN THE PAST MONTH, THOSE
LEAVING IT BEHIND HAVE MADE
FINAL ARGUMENTS FOR ITS
STRENGTH.
>> MR. PRESIDENT, IT IS WITH
GREAT HONOR AND GRATITUDE...
>> IT HAS BEEN A TRUE HONOR.
>> TO REPRESENT TEN MILLION
GEORGIANS WHO ARE THE MOST
WONDERFUL PEOPLE GOD EVER PUT ON
THIS EARTH.
>> NOW, THE LEAVING BECOMES
HARD, AND WRENCHING, AND
EMOTIONAL.
THAT'S BECAUSE I LOVE THE UNITED
STATES SENATE.
>> I LOVE THE INTENSITY OF THE
WORK AND THE GRAVITY OF THE
ISSUES. I LOVE FIGHTING FOR WEST
VIRGINIA HERE.
>> Reporter: MANY, MOST IN FACT,
DEFENDED THE INSTITUTION.
>> I HAVE BEEN ASKED MANY TIMES
IF I AM LEAVING THE SENATE OUT
OF FRUSTRATION WITH GRIDLOCK.
THE ANSWER IS: NO.
>> THE SENATE'S NOT BROKEN, OH
MAYBE A FEW DENTS, BANGED UP A
LITTLE BIT.
>> Reporter: BUT A FEW WENT OUT
RAILING AGAINST ONE THING,
MONEY'S INFLUENCE.
>> THE CRUELTY OF PERPETUAL
CAMPAIGNS DESTROYS OUR ABILITY
TO FULFILL OUR OATH OF OFFICE.
>> DAYS AFTER THE 2014 ELECTION
YOU COULD WALK INTO THE CALL
CENTER FOR EITHER PARTY AND FIND
MEMBERS DIALING FOR DOLLARS FOR
2016.
TONIGHT, THERE WILL BE
FUNDRAISERS ACROSS D.C. WHERE
MEMBERS DISCUSS POLICY NOT WITH
CONSTITUENTS BUT WITH
ORGANIZATIONS THAT CONTRIBUTE TO
THEIR CAMPAIGNS.
MR. PRESIDENT, WE HAVE LOST OUR
WAY.
>> THE REPUBLICANS HAVE A GREAT
OPPORTUNITY IN 2015 AND 2016.
THEY CONVINCED THE VOTERS THEY
ARE THE PARTY THAT CAN GOVERN.
NOW IT'S TIME FOR THEM TO TURN
OFF THE RHETORIC AND TURN ON THE
GOVERNING.
>> Reporter: NOT JUST FAREWELLS,
BUT THINK OF THESE WORDS AS
PERHAPS THE MOST UNFILTERED LOOK
AT EACH LAWMAKER'S TOP
PRIORITIES.
>> THERE HAS NEVER BEEN A TIME
WHEN AMERICA HAS BEEN CLOSER TO
ENERGY INDEPENDENCE AND WHAT
THAT MEANS TO THIS COUNTRY IS
BEYOND DESCRIPTION.
>> IT IS IMPERATIVE THAT THE
ISSUE OF THE DEBT OF THIS
COUNTRY BE ADDRESSED, JUST LAST
WEEK THE DEBT EXCEEDED $18
TRILLION.
HARD VOTES WILL HAVE TO BE
TAKEN, BUT THAT'S WHY WE GET
ELECTED TO THE US SENATE.
>> THIS GROWING GULF BETWEEN A
FORTUNATE FEW AND A STRUGGLING
MANY IS A THREAT TO THE DREAM
THAT HAS ANIMATED THIS NATION
>> REMEMBER THE GREAT SACRIFICE
THAT OUR TROOPS AND THEIR
FAMILIES AND LOVED ONES ARE
MAKING AROUND THE WORLD.
>> YOUR WHOLE GOAL IS TO PROTECT
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
ITS CONSTITUTION AND ITS
LIBERTIES.
IT IS NOT TO PROVIDE BENEFITS
FOR YOUR STATE.
THAT IS WHERE WE DIFFER.
THAT IS WHERE MY CONFLICT WITH
MY COLLEAGUES HAS COME.
>> Reporter: ONE BIPARTISAN
THEME: GRATITUDE.
>> I'M NOT THE LEAST BIT SAD AND
I'M NOT THE LEAST BIT AFRAID
BECAUSE IT'S JUST BEEN A
REMARKABLE OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE
WITH ALL OF YOU, AND I THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
>> I WISH THAT I COULD THANK
EACH ONE OF YOU.
>> FIRST AND FOREMOST, OF
COURSE, GOD.
MY FAMILY.
>> THE WONDERFUL STAFF I HAVE.
>> MY MENTOR, MY BIG BROTHER,
SANDY.
>> SENATOR TED STEVENS WHO WAS
AS GRUMPY AS COULD BE BUT REALLY
DID TAKE ME UNDER HIS WING.
>> MAY GOD BLESS YOU, AND MAY
GOD BLESS THESE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA.
>> I YIELD THE FLOOR.
>> FOR THE LAST TIME, I YIELD
THE FLOOR.
>> Reporter: LISA DESJARDINS,
PBS NEWSHOUR.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, YOU MAY NOT HAVE NOTICED
BUT HOMER, MARGE AND THE REST OF
THE SIMPSON FAMILY TURN 25
TODAY.
WE MARKED THE OCCASION WITH A
QUIZ FEATURING THE MOST
MEMORABLE QUOTES FROM OUR
FAVORITE EPISODES.
AND IT'S DAY TEN OF OUR "12 DAYS
OF NEWSHOUR."
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WITH RUSSIA'S
ECONOMY IN CRISIS, PRESIDENT
PUTIN TAKES QUESTIONS FROM THE
PRESS.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
JN USOI ON-LINE AND AGAIN HERE
TOMORROW EVENING, FOR ALL OF US
HERE AT THE PBS NEWSHOUR,
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.